[Music]
hi this is Paul Stewart and welcome to
my latest badminton training video today
I'm going to share with you a new
version of net doubles the reason I
designed this particular version was to
focus the players attention at the net
and in particular where the shuttle
crosses the net so look out for another
video later on which talks about focal
points when crossing the net so here's a
picture of our court as you can see
we've got the front service line here
and here we've taken the rest of the
court out because that's no longer in
play and this is the line that runs
underneath the net once we get the
graphics software working properly then
this will be a completely different
format but for now I want to make sure
you get the information and that's the
important thing
so if the net doubles the in areas are
between the Nets and this front service
line in this pocket here and here and
obviously on the other side of the court
as well and we have four players so I'd
like to introduce our four little
players to you finance on the blue team
over here and our red team at the bottom
so for beginners what I'm looking to do
here is focus more on the accuracy of
the shots rather than the movement so
the players are always stood where we
are now and their area is to cover just
here I don't want them how to move too
far in any direction let's focus on
getting the shots right and improve the
quality of the shot and then bring in
the movement the way the game works is
very simple we serve from here I'm going
to serve it into this area or serve it
cross-court into this area after that we
only score points when the shuttle comes
over the net lands in these particular
areas if it shuttle goes beyond this
line then it is out and the points is
one for the other side scoring is the
same as you have in badminton today so
it's 1 point per rally and you can
decide whether you want to play to 5
points or with you're on a play to 11 or
15 or 20 one that's up to you so once we
have served we have a played straight
net shots or cross-court net shots and
the important aspect that we talked
about in the coaching tips is making
sure that we are crossing the nets at
certain points those focal points in
order to ensure that the shuttle remains
in so if a player is at this point here
there will be the focal point if they
aim for here by definition the shuttle
will fall out of the court so it's a
base level all I'm looking to achieve as
I say is the shuffle staying in the
courts and we improve on the quality of
the shots as the players get better
sulfa intermediate-advanced then we move
the base further across
so our starts our starting positions and
our recovery positions need to reflect
what happens in
again we'll leave these plays here we'll
just focus on these two so for
intermediate and advanced if a sugar
comes onto your side of the court the
plane will move in play the shot move
out and threaten the return if it's a
straight return then they're in a
position to threaten that return if they
play across court then what I'm
expecting the player to do is move the
bass across and face the direction from
which the shuttle could come so they're
starting to move across the net to cover
what would have been a potential
straight return obviously in this case
we have a doubles pair but I still want
to work the formation so that the
players are moving some distance at any
time in order to cover these shots and
also remember that this could be a very
very fast game because we're only
working in a very confined area so it is
very much hit and move hit and move so
this plane is going to work quite hard
just by moving into the net playing a
shot and the quality shoves of that
straight or cross court and then
stepping out to recover and that's it
same on this side if they played a 400
show before hand cross-court I expect
the player to move they played the
shuttle they move back to a good base
position it's threatening that return if
they've played the cross-court then
expect them to move the base across and
be focusing on that area and where the
shuttle may cross the net in order to
try and intercept it as it's all done
before so the move the base across they
will be facing that direction waiting
for its own if a straight return is
played we'll just take that person out
equation play would be in a position to
move across and take that return it's a
very fast game when when played well
it's very enjoyable
and it really does work your shots very
very hard even though you might only be
playing a straight neck shot or
cross-court net shot you know that there
are variety types of shot we can play
here where we're going to play a tumble
net shot or a straight block so a plenty
of options for the advanced player here
to get a lot more out of this practice
so there you have it an easy game of net
doubles for the beginner and advanced
player give it a try and let me know how
you go on whether you liked it whether
you've changed it always liked any of
your feedback until the next time that's
it for me fine
[Music]